README.adoc, before:

:toc:
:toc-placement!:

// gEmoji for admonitions, see
// https://gist.github.com/dcode/0cfbf2699a1fe9b46ff04c41721dda74#admonitions
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]

// Links (alphabetical order)
:apache_license: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0[Apache License, Version 2.0]
:application_monitoring_operator: https://github.com/integr8ly/application-monitoring-operator[application-monitoring-operator]
:code_of_conduct: link:CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md[Contributor Code of Conduct]
:export_policy: https://aerogear.org/legal/export.html[AeroGear Export Policy]
:aerogear_freenode: irc://irc.freenode.net/aerogear[#aerogear on FreeNode IRC]
:aerogear_jira: https://issues.jboss.org/projects/AEROGEAR/issues[AeroGear on JBoss Jira]
:aerogear_matrix: https://matrix.to/#/!IipcvbGVqkiTUQauSC:matrix.org[#aerogear:matrix.org on Matrix]
:mailing_list: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/aerogear[Google Groups Mailing List]
:minishift: https://github.com/minishift/minishift[Minishift]
:rh_product_security: https://access.redhat.com/security/team/contact[Red Hat Product Security team]

= UnifiedPush Operator

The UnifiedPush Operator for Kubernetes provides an easy way to
install and manage an AeroGear UnifiedPush Server on Kubernetes.

toc::[]

== Installation

As a user with admin permissions, you can easily install the
unifiedpush-operator in your OpenShift cluster as follows:

....
kubectl create namespace unifiedpush
kubectl create -n unifiedpush -f deploy/service_account.yaml
kubectl create -n unifiedpush -f deploy/role.yaml
kubectl create -n unifiedpush -f deploy/role_binding.yaml
kubectl create -n unifiedpush -f deploy/crds/push_v1alpha1_unifiedpushserver_crd.yaml
kubectl create -n unifiedpush -f deploy/operator.yaml
....

== Configuration

=== Deploying custom images

There are default images that this operator will use for the
containers in the deployed pods. These can be configured with the use
of environment variables. The following table shows the available
environment variable names, along with their default values:

.Environment Variables
|===
|Name |Default Value

|UNIFIEDPUSH_IMAGE
|docker.io/aerogear/unifiedpush-wildfly-plain:2.2.1.Final

|POSTGRESQL_IMAGE
|docker.io/centos/postgresql-96-centos7:9.6

|OAUTH_PROXY_IMAGE
|docker.io/openshift/oauth-proxy:v1.1.0
|===

CAUTION: Re-deploying this operator with customized images will cause
_all_ instances owned by the operator to be updated.

=== Metrics

The application-monitoring stack provisioned by the
{application_monitoring_operator} can be used to gather metrics from
the operator here.  Once you have provisioned that (or the
ServiceMonitor CRD at a minimum), you can run the following commands
to configure it:

....
kubectl label namespace unifiedpush monitoring-key=middleware
kubectl create -n unifiedpush -f deploy/service_monitor.yaml
....

== Getting help

All AeroGear projects use the same communication channels.

*Issue tracker*

Our main issue tracker is {aerogear_jira}. Issues may also be created
here on GitHub for individual projects.

*Chat*

For synchronous real-time chat, we use Matrix/IRC. These are bridged
together, so you can choose which is more convenient for you:
{aerogear_matrix} or {aerogear_freenode}.

*Discussion list*

For important conversations, we discuss asynchronously on this
{mailing_list}. This is great for discussions that should involve many
people in different time zones, and allows us to easily link back to
conversations in future.

== Limitations

// https://issues.jboss.org/browse/AEROGEAR-9162
[NOTE]
====
This operator currently only works on OpenShift. This is because it
provisions a Route, and also relies on the fact that OpenShift
provides an OAuth server. In future we aim to make it work on vanilla
Kubernetes also.
====

== Development

=== Prerequisites

- Access to an OpenShift cluster with admin privileges to be able to
  create Roles.  {minishift} is suggested.

- Go, Make, dep, operator-sdk, kubectl (kubectl can just be a symlink
  to oc)

=== Running the operator

1. Prepare the operator project:

....
make cluster/prepare
....

2. Run the operator (locally, not in OpenShift):

....
make code/run
....

3. Create a UPS instance (in another terminal):

....
kubectl apply -f deploy/crds/push_v1alpha1_unifiedpushserver_cr.yaml -n unifiedpush
....

4. Watch the status of your UPS instance provisioning (optional):

....
watch -n1 "kubectl get po -n unifiedpush && echo '' && kubectl get ups -o yaml -n unifiedpush"
....

5. When finished, clean up:

....
make cluster/clean
....

== Testing

=== Run unit tests

....
make test/unit
....

=== Run e2e tests

. Export env vars used in commands below

....
export NAMESPACE="<name-of-your-openshift-project-used-for-testing>"
export IMAGE="quay.io/<your-account-name>/unifiedpush-operator"
....

. Login to OpenShift cluster as a user with cluster-admin role

....
oc login <url> --token <token>
....

. Prepare a new OpenShift project for testing

....
make NAMESPACE=$NAMESPACE cluster/prepare
....

. Modify the operator image name in manifest file

....
yq w -i deploy/operator.yaml spec.template.spec.containers[0].image $IMAGE
....

Note: If you do not have link:https://mikefarah.github.io/yq/[yq] installed, just simply edit the image name in link:deploy/operator.yaml[deploy/operator.yaml]

. Build & push the operator container image to your Dockerhub/Quay image repository, e.g.

....
operator-sdk build $IMAGE --enable-tests && docker push $IMAGE
....

. Run the test

....
operator-sdk test cluster $IMAGE --namespace $NAMESPACE --service-account unifiedpush-operator
....

== Security Response

If you've found a security issue that you'd like to disclose
confidentially please contact the {rh_product_security}.

== Legal

The UnifiedPush Operator is licensed under the {apache_license}
License, and is subject to the {export_policy}.

Commit message:

Get valid client in PushApplication controller
JIRA: https://issues.jboss.org/browse/AEROGEAR-9022

This means finding all (hopefully just one) Services that are labelled
with internal=unifiedpush, and creating a UnifiedPushClient with the
first one.

Since the Service won't be directly routable from a local instance of
the operator, instructions have also been added for a possible way to
make it available locally.

README.adoc, after:

:toc:
:toc-placement!:

// gEmoji for admonitions, see
// https://gist.github.com/dcode/0cfbf2699a1fe9b46ff04c41721dda74#admonitions
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]

// Links (alphabetical order)
:apache_license: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0[Apache License, Version 2.0]
:application_monitoring_operator: https://github.com/integr8ly/application-monitoring-operator[application-monitoring-operator]
:code_of_conduct: link:CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md[Contributor Code of Conduct]
:export_policy: https://aerogear.org/legal/export.html[AeroGear Export Policy]
:aerogear_freenode: irc://irc.freenode.net/aerogear[#aerogear on FreeNode IRC]
:aerogear_jira: https://issues.jboss.org/projects/AEROGEAR/issues[AeroGear on JBoss Jira]
:aerogear_matrix: https://matrix.to/#/!IipcvbGVqkiTUQauSC:matrix.org[#aerogear:matrix.org on Matrix]
:mailing_list: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/aerogear[Google Groups Mailing List]
:minishift: https://github.com/minishift/minishift[Minishift]
:rh_product_security: https://access.redhat.com/security/team/contact[Red Hat Product Security team]

= UnifiedPush Operator

The UnifiedPush Operator for Kubernetes provides an easy way to
install and manage an AeroGear UnifiedPush Server on Kubernetes.

toc::[]

== Installation

As a user with admin permissions, you can easily install the
unifiedpush-operator in your OpenShift cluster as follows:

....
kubectl create namespace unifiedpush
kubectl create -n unifiedpush -f deploy/service_account.yaml
kubectl create -n unifiedpush -f deploy/role.yaml
kubectl create -n unifiedpush -f deploy/role_binding.yaml
kubectl create -n unifiedpush -f deploy/crds/push_v1alpha1_unifiedpushserver_crd.yaml
kubectl create -n unifiedpush -f deploy/operator.yaml
....

== Configuration

=== Deploying custom images

There are default images that this operator will use for the
containers in the deployed pods. These can be configured with the use
of environment variables. The following table shows the available
environment variable names, along with their default values:

.Environment Variables
|===
|Name |Default Value

|UNIFIEDPUSH_IMAGE
|docker.io/aerogear/unifiedpush-wildfly-plain:2.2.1.Final

|POSTGRESQL_IMAGE
|docker.io/centos/postgresql-96-centos7:9.6

|OAUTH_PROXY_IMAGE
|docker.io/openshift/oauth-proxy:v1.1.0
|===

CAUTION: Re-deploying this operator with customized images will cause
_all_ instances owned by the operator to be updated.

=== Metrics

The application-monitoring stack provisioned by the
{application_monitoring_operator} can be used to gather metrics from
the operator here.  Once you have provisioned that (or the
ServiceMonitor CRD at a minimum), you can run the following commands
to configure it:

....
kubectl label namespace unifiedpush monitoring-key=middleware
kubectl create -n unifiedpush -f deploy/service_monitor.yaml
....

== Getting help

All AeroGear projects use the same communication channels.

*Issue tracker*

Our main issue tracker is {aerogear_jira}. Issues may also be created
here on GitHub for individual projects.

*Chat*

For synchronous real-time chat, we use Matrix/IRC. These are bridged
together, so you can choose which is more convenient for you:
{aerogear_matrix} or {aerogear_freenode}.

*Discussion list*

For important conversations, we discuss asynchronously on this
{mailing_list}. This is great for discussions that should involve many
people in different time zones, and allows us to easily link back to
conversations in future.

== Limitations

// https://issues.jboss.org/browse/AEROGEAR-9162
[NOTE]
====
This operator currently only works on OpenShift. This is because it
provisions a Route, and also relies on the fact that OpenShift
provides an OAuth server. In future we aim to make it work on vanilla
Kubernetes also.
====

== Development

=== Prerequisites

- Access to an OpenShift cluster with admin privileges to be able to
  create Roles.  {minishift} is suggested.

- Go, Make, dep, operator-sdk, kubectl (kubectl can just be a symlink
  to oc)

=== Running the operator

1. Prepare the operator project:

....
make cluster/prepare
....

2. Run the operator (locally, not in OpenShift):

....
make code/run
....

3. Create a UPS instance (in another terminal):

....
kubectl apply -f deploy/crds/push_v1alpha1_unifiedpushserver_cr.yaml -n unifiedpush
....

4. Watch the status of your UPS instance provisioning (optional):

....
watch -n1 "kubectl get po -n unifiedpush && echo '' && kubectl get ups -o yaml -n unifiedpush"
....

5. If you want to be able to work with resources that require the
local instance of your operator to be able to talk to the UPS instance
in the cluster, then you'll need to make a corresponding domain name
available locally. Something like the following should work, by adding
an entry to /etc/hosts for the example Service that's created, then
forwarding the port from the relevant Pod in the cluster to the local
machine. Run this in a separate terminal, and ctrl+c to clean it up
when finished:

// TODO: We could maybe use a non-privileged port instead of :80?
....
# su/sudo is needed to be able to:
# - modify /etc/hosts
# - bind to port :80
KUBECONFIG=$HOME/.kube/config su -c "echo '127.0.0.1   example-unifiedpushserver-unifiedpush' >> /etc/hosts && kubectl port-forward $(kubectl get po -l service=ups -o name) 80:8080 && sed -i -e 's/^127.0.0.1   example-unifiedpushserver-unifiedpush$//g' -e '/^[[:space:]]*$/d' /etc/hosts"
....

6. When finished, clean up:

....
make cluster/clean
....

== Testing

=== Run unit tests

....
make test/unit
....

=== Run e2e tests

. Export env vars used in commands below

....
export NAMESPACE="<name-of-your-openshift-project-used-for-testing>"
export IMAGE="quay.io/<your-account-name>/unifiedpush-operator"
....

. Login to OpenShift cluster as a user with cluster-admin role

....
oc login <url> --token <token>
....

. Prepare a new OpenShift project for testing

....
make NAMESPACE=$NAMESPACE cluster/prepare
....

. Modify the operator image name in manifest file

....
yq w -i deploy/operator.yaml spec.template.spec.containers[0].image $IMAGE
....

Note: If you do not have link:https://mikefarah.github.io/yq/[yq] installed, just simply edit the image name in link:deploy/operator.yaml[deploy/operator.yaml]

. Build & push the operator container image to your Dockerhub/Quay image repository, e.g.

....
operator-sdk build $IMAGE --enable-tests && docker push $IMAGE
....

. Run the test

....
operator-sdk test cluster $IMAGE --namespace $NAMESPACE --service-account unifiedpush-operator
....

== Security Response

If you've found a security issue that you'd like to disclose
confidentially please contact the {rh_product_security}.

== Legal

The UnifiedPush Operator is licensed under the {apache_license}
License, and is subject to the {export_policy}.
